[Docs][DocDB] Statistics-based full compactions documentation (#17667)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/architecture/concepts/yb-tserver.md

YugabyteDB allows compactions to be externally triggered on a table using the [`compact_table`](../../../admin/yb-admin/#compact-table) command in the [yb-admin utility](../../../admin/yb-admin/). This is useful when new data is no longer coming into the system for a table and you might want to reclaim disk space due to overwrites or deletes that have already happened, or due to TTL expiry.

### Statistics-based full compactions to improve read performance

YugabyteDB tracks the number of key/value pairs that are read at the DocDB level over a sliding period of time (dectated by the [`auto_compact_stat_window_seconds](../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver.md#auto_compact_stat_window_seconds) gflag). If it is detected that an overwhelming amount of the DocDB reads in a tablet is spent skipping over tombstoned and obsolete keys, then a full compaction will be triggered to remove the unnecessary keys.

> Once all of the following conditions are met, an full compaction will automatically be triggered on the tablet. Those conditions include: the ratio of obsolete (e.g. deleted or removed due to TTL) versus active keys read reaches a threshold [`auto_compact_percent_obsolete`](../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver.md#auto_compact_percent_obsolete), and enough keys have been read within the window(`[auto_compact_min_obsolete_keys_found`](../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver.md#auto_compact_min_obsolete_keys_found)). This feature is compatible with tables with TTL, but will not schedule compactions on tables with TTL if the [TTL file expiration](../../develop/learn/ttl-data-expiration-ycql/#efficient-data-expiration-for-ttl) feature is active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once all of the following conditions are met, a full compaction is automatically triggered on the tablet:

- The ratio of obsolete (for example, deleted or removed due to TTL) versus active keys read reaches the threshold [auto_compact_percent_obsolete](../../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#auto_compact_percent_obsolete).
- Enough keys have been read within the window [auto_compact_min_obsolete_keys_found](../../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#auto_compact_min_obsolete_keys_found).

While this feature is compatible with tables with TTL, YugabyteDB won't schedule compactions on tables with TTL if the [TTL file expiration](../../../develop/learn/ttl-data-expiration-ycql/#efficient-data-expiration-for-ttl) feature is active.
```

### Scheduled full compactions

>  YugabyteDB allows full compactions over all data in a tablet to be scheduled automatically using the [`scheduled_full_compaction_frequency_hours`](../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver.md#scheduled_full_compaction_frequency_hours) and [`scheduled_full_compaction_jitter_factor_percentage`](../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver.md#scheduled_full_compaction_jitter_factor_percentage) gflags. This can be useful for performance and disk space reclamation for workloads with a large number of overwrites or deletes on a regular basis. Can be used with tables with TTL as well, but is not compatible with the [TTL file expiration](../../develop/learn/ttl-data-expiration-ycql/#efficient-data-expiration-for-ttl) feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 YugabyteDB allows full compactions over all data in a tablet to be scheduled automatically using the [scheduled_full_compaction_frequency_hours](../../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#scheduled_full_compaction_frequency_hours) and [scheduled_full_compaction_jitter_factor_percentage](../../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#scheduled_full_compaction_jitter_factor_percentage) YB-TServer flags. This can be useful for performance and disk space reclamation for workloads with a large number of overwrites or deletes on a regular basis. This can be used with tables with TTL as well, but is not compatible with the [TTL file expiration](../../../develop/learn/ttl-data-expiration-ycql/#efficient-data-expiration-for-ttl) feature.
```
